### Connecting Words

Listed below are different types of connections between ideas or events. These different types of connections can be indicated by using different Connecting Words. When we write or translate something, it is important to use the right Connecting Word so that these connections are clear for the reader. If you would like additional information simply click the colored word to be directed to a page containing definitions and examples for each type of connection.

* [Sequential Clause](../grammar-connecting-words-time-sequential/01.md) – a time relationship between two events in which one happens and then the other happens.
* [Simultaneous Clause](../grammar-connect-words-time-simultaneous/01.md) – a time relationship between two or more events that occur at the same time.
* [Background Clause](../grammar-connect-words-time-background/01.md) – a time relationship in which the first clause describes a long event that is happening at the time when the beginning of the second event happens, which is described in the second clause.
* [Exceptional Relationship](../grammar-connect-words-exceptions/01.md) – one clause describes a group of people or items, and the other clause excludes one or more items or people from the group.
* [Hypothetical Condition](../grammar-connect-words-condition-hypothetical/01.md) – the second event will only take place if the first one takes place. Sometimes what takes place is dependent on the actions of other people.
* [Factual Condition](../grammar-connect-words-condition-fact/01.md) – a connection that sounds hypothetical but is already certain or true so that the condition is guaranteed to happen.
* [Contrary to Fact Condition](../grammar-connect-words-condition-contrary/01.md) – a connection that sounds hypothetical but is already certain that it is not true. See also: [Hypothetical Statements](../figs-hypo/01.md).
* [Goal Relationship](../grammar-connect-words-logic-goal/01.md) – a logical relationship in which the second event is the purpose or goal of the first.
* [Reason and Result Relationship](../grammar-connect-words-logic-result/01.md) - a logical relationship in which one event is the reason for the other event, which is the result. 
* [Contrast Relationship](../grammar-connect-words-logic-contrast/01.md) – one item is being described as different or in opposition to another.
