
Grammar has two main parts: words and structure. Structure involves how we put words together to form phrase, clauses, and sentences.

**Parts of Speech** - All words in a language belong to a category called a  part of speech.  (see [Parts of Speech](en/ta/translate/man/figs-partsofspeech))

**Sentences** -  When we speak, we organize our thoughts in sentences. A sentence usually has a complete thought about an event or a situation or state of being. (see [Sentence Structure](en/ta/translate/man/figs-sentences))

  * Sentences can be statements, questions, commands, or exclamations. (see [Exclamations](en/ta/translate/man/figs-sentencetypes))
  * Sentences can have more than one clause. (see [Sentence Structure](en/ta/translate/man/figs-sentences))
  * Some languages have both active and  passive sentences. (see [Active or Passive](en/ta/translate/man/figs-activepassive))

**Possession** - This shows that there is a relationship between two nouns. In English it is marked with "of" as in "the love of God," or with "'s" as in "God's love," or with a possessive pronoun as in "his love." (see [Possession](en/ta/translate/man/figs-possession))

**Quotations** -  A quotation is a report of what someone else has said.  

  * Quotations normally have two parts: Information about who said something and what the person said. (see [Quotations and Quote Margins](en/ta/translate/man/writing-quotations)) 
  * Quotations can be either direct quotes or indirect quotes.  (see [Direct and Indirect Quotations](en/ta/translate/man/figs-quotations)) 
  * Quotes can have quotes within them. (see [Quotes within Quotes](en/ta/translate/man/figs-quotesinquotes))  
  * Quotes can be marked to make it easy for readers to understand who said what. (see [Quote Markings](en/ta/translate/man/figs-quotemarks))